[MRG] DOC Mention pandas dataframe support in ColumnTransformer in FAQ (#24487)
scikit-learn/scikit-learn: doc/faq.rst

Please refer to :ref:`randomness`.

Why do categorical variables need preprocessing in scikit-learn, compared to other tools?
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Most of scikit-learn assumes data is in NumPy arrays or SciPy sparse matrices
of a single numeric dtype. These do not explicitly represent categorical
variables at present. Thus, unlike R's data.frames or pandas.DataFrame, we
require explicit conversion of categorical features to numeric values, as
discussed in :ref:`preprocessing_categorical_features`.
See also :ref:`sphx_glr_auto_examples_compose_plot_column_transformer_mixed_types.py` for an
example of working with heterogeneous (e.g. categorical and numeric) data.

Why does Scikit-learn not directly work with, for example, pandas.DataFrame?
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

The homogeneous NumPy and SciPy data objects currently expected are most
efficient to process for most operations. Extensive work would also be needed
to support Pandas categorical types. Restricting input to homogeneous
types therefore reduces maintenance cost and encourages usage of efficient

> data structures. But :class:`~sklearn.compose.ColumnTransformer`
> can be used with pandas DataFrame because this meta estimator makes it convenient
> to map related subsets of dataframe columns selected by name or dtype to 
> dedicated scikit-learn transformers.

Reviewer: Actually all scikit-learn estimators can be used with pandas dataframe (as long as they have homogeneous column types). What `ColumnTransformer` offers is a way to deal
with dataframes with non-homogeneous columns. Here is an alternative phrasing to avoid inducing any confusion in that respect:

```suggestion
data structures. 

Note however that :class:`~sklearn.compose.ColumnTransformer` makes it
convenient to handle heterogeneous pandas dataframes by mapping homogeneous subsets of
dataframe columns selected by name or dtype to dedicated scikit-learn transformers.

Therefore :class:`~sklearn.compose.ColumnTransformer` are often used in the first
step of scikit-learn pipelines when dealing
with heterogeneous dataframes (see :ref:`pipeline` for more details).

See also :ref:`sphx_glr_auto_examples_compose_plot_column_transformer_mixed_types.py`
for an example of working with heterogeneous (e.g. categorical and numeric) data.
```
